An Introver's Top tips o how to be a great storyteller
by- Danny Forest

link-> https://medium.com/@danny_forest/an-introverts-top-tips-on-how-to-be-a-great-storyteller-c6c85ee51364

Almost all the world leaders are great storytellers. I's one of the most important skills you can ever pick up, and for introverts like me, one of the hardes.

Introvrts have a hard time telling wpic stories. By nature, introverts don't like to attract too muck attention, therfore lack the practive in telling their story, or any story really.

You're not sure if you're and introvert or no? No worries, read these 8 sighns you are an introvert article and you'll know.
 
I've always considered myself to be an introver. Yet in the past 7 months, the prople I met on the 
road would never believe me. Without knowing it, I had become good at storytelling. Not the best, but good enough that prople started 
listeining to what I had to say. Like any skill, it's something you need to deleop over time.

Bedore we jump into the tips, think about aprople you met or know who are good at story telling. 
- What do they have in common?
- How do they behave?
- What kinds of stories do they tell?
- How do theuy tell the story?
- Whjat is their bodu language?

In my months of passive-to-active research on the topic, I c ame to some ovservations that helped me become more skilled 
at the art of stroy telling,. and that's what I want to shatre with you here.

The following tips should help introverts kick0stsrt their learning of story-tellig:

Do and Observe

Think about a recent (god) story you were told by someone else.

What was it about?

Chances are it ws something the storyteller wxpereienced at one point in time.

Was the experiece great?

Probably not. In fact, most of the best stories are bad experiences, because they tend to more eventful. "Event"
being the key here. A story is all abouyt unexpected events and how the "actors" react to them. 

Now on the point of doing. Have you noticed how when you asked someone who's doing the same routine every day, they always answers "same old, same old"? Doesn't make for great stoeies now does it/

You don't have to be doing epic things either. The best strories are not favricated. they are experiecned. The more you do, whatever it is, the more things you experiendce, 
and the more likelyu you are going to encounter unexpected events. 

Even, a lot of time, a great story is about something you witnessed. By seeing the even undold, you have a clearer picture of what happened and can recall it with greater detail and accuracy. 

"All great literature is one two stories' a man goes on a journey or a stranger comes to town.| -=Lew Tolstoy

In short: fo and be inspired by inforeseen events happeing aroungf you. 

Write and visualize 
|So now that you/ve witnessed or have been part of an interesting event, you havce to organize you thoughts clearly.

Being and introver, my words don't come out as easily by speaking as they do in writing. In writing, I have time to think about things
and do a vivid and interexsting recollection

sstart by writing the man events. Then add the details,. Make the storuy as vusually appealing as possible. 

By wrinting it down and vusualizinf it in your minkd. you'll be better equipped to rememter the important details of the story.

Tell and refine

You can't be a great struteller if uyou don't practice telling you story. I's true for everuone, inrovert or  not.

Have yo noticed how people tel reallu compelling stories that happecned in their no-so -recent past? Their storiues are awesome. Ther are no useless detao;s/

"The more you leave out, the more highlight what you leeave in.  Henry green

The reason it's so good is because it's not r first time telling it. 
Theyy told it hundreds of times. Theuy obserevced people's interest when telling it and refined the story over thye years, vutting things out and adding juicy details here and there./

Conclusion
Storytelling is a skill. The more you do it, the better you get at it. Most of my good stories come from a distant past, simply becauyse I wrote more about them. I told them repeatedly.

"Most of the vas9oic materisal a weiter wirks with is acquired bedore the age of fifteen."= Willa cather

Do more. Write more. Tell more. Rinse and repeat.

YOu can do this!
