How to read the '7 Habits of Highly Effictive People' so that it holds up
-by Jacquiline Detwiler

link-> https://forge.medium.com/how-to-read-the-7-habits-of-highly-effective-people-so-that-it-holds-up-3e77aacb0434

This story started as a take down. The 7 habits of highly effective people is a cornerstone of the business self-help
canon, a genre given to saccharine platitudes and lampoonable posterr slogans, neither of which boes well for cultureal relevance.
Iy was published in 1989, a time so different from now that the big=shouldered businessmen who read it first 
might as well have been wearing pwodered wigs and pantaloons.

And yet, the 7 habists of highly successful prople persists. As I write this, the book is one of the top 15 topselling books on Amaon.
Not in Amazon's self-improvement category. On Anazon. Over the past 31 years, the book has sold more than 40 million copis. It has spawned a global leadership training company, 
FranklinCovey, with associates covering 150 countries. In may, Simon and Schuster released an updated 30th anniversary edition. CNET named it one of the best personal dinance 
books for 2020. Business Insdert just published an article of reminiscences by the authors's son.

But a self-help book written by a White man in 1989 couldn't possibly apply to a year like 2020, could it? Surely it is fill of outmoded " me first" principles out of step with the needs of the modern reader, right?

My editor thouht that might be the case: that the 7 habits might be a juggernait incompatible with our times but too big to fail. In this colossal, radical, revolutionary year, amny of us see outselves  not only as strivers and achievers, but also 
as members of a community, a system, a country going throughh massive change that calls into question the very idea of "individual success." A book based on suvh an outdated concept couldn't help
but fail spectacularly.

But what began for me as an investigation into why a 30-year-old self-improvement book was still on bestseller lists turned into a story on how to read any classic piece of self-improvement: as both history book and intruction manual. Because -- and you might be surprised to read this-- 
The 7 habits of Highly Effective People is well-suited to addressing the complicated postmodern problems we currently face. Connecting to pwople who are different from us, considering the plights and cirvumatances of others, creating change that ligts everyone, and stepping up when a moment calls for action --

check, check, check, and check.

For all its hokey or out-of-toucj moments, The 7 habits of Highly effective people can still make you effective in ways that are meaningful in 2020. you just have to read it a little differently than everyone used to.

CONDIDER WHAT SUCCESS MEANS

It's uncomfortable, at a time when we are all publicly wrestling with structural privilege - who enjoys it, and who does not - to encounter a book premised on the idea that a lot of pwople stand in their own way. From the moment he announces 
Habit $1: Be Proactive, Covey encourages people to be independent, not to consider themselves hapless victims, adn to rise above the challenges in their lives.

This rings hollow in out current moment. Maybe a lack of self-actualization was the main obstackle standing in the way of success for the college-educated businessmen Covey met in the course of his studies, who had every other circumstance stacked in their facor. But for other people, it
could be predatory student loans, or health issues, or structural racism, or family obligations. It would be nice if the book acknowledged that people begin from diggerent places, that some face more insurmountanble obstacvles that others, that systems can function as shackles, and that the same life challenge can
bounce off one person and demolish another.

That said, Covey's overarching theory was that success flows to those with strong character. He believed that if you adhere to eternal ideals such as integrity, humility, fidelity, vourage, and justice, you will achieve more than those who allow themselves to be pushed around by circumstance. i think
that remains true, so long as you examine what Covey means by achievement.

It may not be possible to bootstrap one's way into a CEO position, or even a stable and sustainable home life, in 2020, but believing in your own power to affect change is always a positive development - no matter how daunting the challenges a person faces. Success in this respect can be as small as creating a space inside yourself that is impervios to the various injustices visited upon you. 

Covey even gets there in the book, with moving meditaitons about a friend who remained couragwous as she died of cancer, and a Holocaust survivor who wrested back the timiest moficum of control while he was inprisoned by the Nazis. Covey may have been privilegfed, but he believed agency mattered to eveyone. It does.

FOCUS ON HABITS 2, 3, AND 5

Part of the rason 7 habits is successful is tht it's not really a business boook. Covey clearly intended his work to guide child rearing, relationships, business connections, and spiritual and ethical value propositions. The book grew out of research on morality and behavior he performed while earning an MBA at Harvard, and later, a doctorate in religious efucation from Brigham Younf. In that research, Covey hit
philosophical gold with his second , third, adn fifth habits. Each is bnoth timeless and tailor made for the aggravations of out  time.

Habit #2, Begin with the End in Mind, begins by having the reader imagine herself at her funeral. She is to figure out how she wants to be remembered and work backward from there. It's a smart idea: the most genuine way to uncover your real values, instrad of bring dragged along by culture wars, the opinions of others, or false lodestars such as money, fame, or cuccess. It's also a good quistion to ask yourself when you find yourself doomscrolling 
or staring at the 26 browser tabs you have open at onece,.

But be aware: In your pursuit of those values you uncovered, some daily actions are more effective thatn others, and the world will tru to force you to fovus on the wrong ones. 

Does this sound familiar? As I was reading covey's book, I had no fewer than 26 tabs open in Google Vhrome. These invluded a Twitter feed full of angry screeds, severeal inroads into the never-ending deluge of bad news, 
a whole bunch of Washington Post comment threads (why do I do this to myself?), and my email inboc, three times, in three separate tabs.

Also: A tab for a Father's Day gift I was planning to buy, a link to donate to a charity, the beginnings of a story I should have been writing to educate freaful consumers about Covid-19 vaccine testing, and the start of a message to a freind whose boyfriend recently lost a family member. Which set of actions would push me toward being the kingd of person i'd like to hear eulogized?

Covey;s solution is Habit #3, Put first things first. Identify those activities that "would make a tremendous positive diffrenece in your life."
Then set weekly agendas incorporating them so that they actually get done. 

And then there's Habit #5, Seek first to undertstanbd, then to be understood. Covey explains this one through a series of conversations in which people repeatedly misinterpret each other. Those who are good at this habit, 
Covey says, first learn to tryly listen to people - to what they mean, rather than what they think they mean. Then they learn to present their own thoughts in a way that the other peron, coming from a completely different mindset, might find  compelling.

This seems remarkably usegul now, partivularty on social media, where people don't just neglect to understand others' arguments, nbut use those arguments to score their own points. Multuly that across the entire internet and you have our currently constipated styule of debate. Covey is essentially making a case for the good-faith argument: that if we're engaging with others on a subject, we should proceed with understanding that we all want to end up agreeing, even if we're not sure what that agreement will look like .

SKIP HABITS 6 AND 7

Not because they're not important, but because they've been so thorughly sycumed by modern cultyre that you're almost certaily already aware ( and probbably tired) of them.

Synergy(Habit #6), for wxample, has become ssuch a deeply corporate buzzword that it's painful to read whle many corportations are failing to protect their workers. Ostensibly, it means working so seamlessly with others that you're able to synthesize uniwuiyt ingenious compromises. Parts of this chapter read like that trust exercise where eveyone has to sit on each other's laps at the same time. Covey writes a description of a meeting that is so pornographic it is indistiguishable feom 50 shades of Grey:
The release of creative energy was incredible. Excitment replaced boredom. People became vey open to each other's influence and generated new insights and options... Differences were valued and transcended. A new common vision began to form.

Gross.

Habit #7, meanwhile is to Sharpen the Saw, which stems from a drawn-out metaphor about correct living being similar to cutting down your tree in the right forest, etc. Wgat Coveyt means is that a person must perform regular upkeep in evey area of hert life - physical, mental, emotioinal and spititula - in order to remain eggentive. This is just self0care. and this point every newletter, company, and Instagram influencer has gotten in on the trend. You already know all this. Skip it.

READ SOME OF IT LIKE YOU'D READ AN OLD MAGAZINE

For all its interpersonal wisdom, 7 habits is sprinkkled with outdated science. For example, Covey repeatedly employs a conceptial split between left and right brained pwople to explain differences in logical versus creative or holostic thinking. In places, he uses it to advance sexist tropes that women are less logical than men. Unfortunately for Covey and fortunateluy for us reading him from the rfutyre, left brain/ right brain stuff has been dismissed as hokum since the early  2010s.

Ther are other bits that are grievously out of date. In one section, Covey emplys an example of a marital argument that is clearly just a grade A misgynist berating his long-suffering wife. Ihopr she read the 7 habits herself adn divorced him.

Why not, in internet parlance, throw the whole man away on the basis of these missteps? Because that upsetting feeling a modern reader gets upon encountering an outdated anecdote or term shoud be inviforating. It's a visible reminder that culture changes - in this case, in a positive direction. Besides, someonw inyour life is almost certainly still operating according to an outdated map. Interact accordingly.\

SUPPLEMENT IT WITH THESE BRAND-NEW HABITS

The 30th anniversary edition of the 7 habits of highly effective people was released on may 19, just a couple of months after the world changed irreversihbly. It was too late to respomd to our new world with new habits. Allow me.

Habit #8, Calling bullshit, might not have mattered back in 1989 but is a huge asset in a world in which truth is becoming harder and harder to differentiate from fiction. 

Habit #9, Offering Gracxe to those who aren't as far along this as you are, is useful because highly effective people don't waste their time piling on to those who are wrong but trying their best.

Habit #10, thinking critically about any self-improvement approach, no matter how effective it is. It's not as catchy as "Synergy", but I think it works.