Note taking Revisited: how to take good notes
-by Jenna Brandon
link=> https://medium.com/@jennabrandon07/note-taking-revisited-how-to-take-good-notes-dd8849f9c99d

Note takeing should assist us when we actively process information. Writing in intself is an automatic thying; we tru to find the best way to take notes, we need to
understand that the main task of taking notes. Actually it is not to write down something word-for-word but to digest, analyze information as soon as we hear it, and then put it on paper in such a way that this process is 
easitly recreated in our mind when we look at those notes againl. To take a note of something means to pay our full attention to it; and the best note taking methods should help us do exactly this.

NOTE TAKING METHODS

How to take notes effectively? Information sinks into our minds better when we do diverse kinds of actions with it multiple times: breaking it down into categories, summartizing, finding recurrent definitions, drawing a story and then retelling it, going down the timeline and back, etc.
The notes you take should present the good material for all those kinds of manipulation. They should enable a note taker to view all the prices of information from different angles. 

For this, there are different types of note taking, The choice of note taking stratrgies depensds on the way, in which it's easiest for you to process certain kinds of information and on the discipline you stydy or on the field you work in, In the end, there's no one best way to take notes, If you use even just one that really helps you, you know how to take notes.

Duscuokubes abd tioucs tgat gave a defined structure and usually include some types of data require note taking methods that are also based on a certaing structure. One of the note-taking technoquies that are handy here is the chart method: you create a chart or table that has many columns, each dealing with a separate category or aspect of information. These can be the columns for numnbers, dates, names and specific freatuyresl and,
thus, you just fill those columns along the way.

Libereal disciplins and abstract subjects that are gernerally free from fixed categories allow for more free-flowing, linewa or 
image-like note taking methods. You can literally draw the information you recieve or invent your own shorthand system just as they come into your head when you're listening or reading. These are actulally the best notes because a touch of creativity enables a much stronger connection of 
the new information with your brain.

"When choosing among the different norte taking methods, you should also think about the things that are usually the hardest for you to remember 
and make them a priority in your note taking.

If you tend to memorize the specific information well when you take notes but have a hard time with recalling a general division of topics, use the outline nots method. Write down the name of a topc on the far left on the page. 
Then, write the names of every subtopic below a bit further to the rigfht. Therefor, all sunbtopics of the same valure create a column. Each step down the topic hierarchy is placed furthere tot the rught of the page, down to the key 
points of the smallest subtopic category. That's how you outline notes.

A similar but nore expansive method of taking notes is the mapping method, where all the alements of the matter under discussion are put on the paper to form a kind of a map, with algorithms and pointers that show how 
one subject relates to another. Some note taking tips: when one subject realtes to many distictive aspects of the issye, you can ascribe a different color, mind0bubble shape or handwriting size to a different aspect so that you see those distinctive connections faster.

HOW TO TAKE NOTES IN COLLEGE AND ENGANCE STUDY SKILLS?

Many students are used to taking notes at lectures by trying to write down the lecturer's speech in full sentences and then highlight the most inportant parts. However, if you tend to quickly forget whta you learn, 
it may be hard for you to tie these highlighted prices into the full context of the subject matter when you revuew those stugy notes. This aging emphasized the importandce recondidering the whole notion of notetaking. Once again, the main thing here is note trying to digest information 
after you've taken your notes but to take notes of what you've already digested and understood, Although, highlighiting still performs important functions 
for your stydy notesL for instance, you can mark the specific things like unfamiliar definitions, subnjectts that you'd love to stydy 
further, ideas that you dind especially intersting, and so on.

One university';s method for focus notes has been around dfor over half a centyry, which witnesses 
its effectiveness: the Cornell note taking method. It sets a good example of how to take good notes. It's also 
quite simple: a page is dicided into wide and narrow columns., In the narrow one, you  put some questions
that those blocks of notes answer. At the bottom, there's a space to make a summary of all your notes on the page. Having quistions, answers and summarized points in your study notes makes it easier to 
check your knowledge of the subject and helps you analyze better what you write. An alternative way to use the Cornell note taking template 
is to write keywoeds for each block of notes int eh narrow column instead of quistions. It is very simple to apply.

How to take notes from a textbook? There are additional note taking tips to work with books and othere resources, for instance 
wgen conducting a research, You can arrange the concepts and ideas under stydy as an alphabetical index 
when you take notes and in brackes write down the page and the resource where those conceps are mentioned. It works even better if those exact mentions are highligted int he book. you can also number the pages in your notebook and apply the indexing to your own notes.

ONE KEY APPROACH TO TAKING NOTES AT WORK 

|Work notes come in handy at conferences, brainstorming sessions, interciews, case studies for projects, etc.,
it generally when you're discussing something with someone ealse. How to take effective meeting notes? Usually you know beforehand what exactluy the main focus of your meeting will be: finding solutions, making decisions, hiring empuyees, garthering ideas... You can set notetaking goals beforehgand and get your mind to concentrate on those thingsl and you can also prepare a corernstponding 
note taking template. You can adjust your strategy to evey individual task that involves taking notes 
at work: prepare charts with quistions and answers, create a map of the curent project with blank 
shapes that uyou will fill withy sketches of ideas, etc,. Soi, if you eant to know how to take effective meeting notes or 
any other kind of work notes for that matter - then, the main thing is to know what you're looking for, what 
your objectives are. 

What about technology that is now everywhere in the workspace? It goes without saying that a laptop
is not a very appropratte means for taking notes when meenting prople face to face. Also, taking handfwritten 
notes is generally [refferred over typing because typing is an even more automatic and detached process than mindless writing. 
Making voice recordings of meetings allows you to come back to the necessary information, but. in the end, you also need to write notes on that.

SOME OF THE BEST NOTETAKING APPS

Despite those barricade like laptop lids, you have quite some advantages when you take notes online, 
especially on your phone or tablet. Ther are plenbty of apps( and some of them hgavce OC versions ) that can show you how to take notes with ease. Here are some the bnest picks:

Evernote and Microsoft's OneNote are standard favorites, but Bear and GoodNotes are top-notch alternatives. 
LucidChart and MindMeister are great for organinzing notes in the form of charts and maps. If you need a creative note taking app, 
Notablility adn Squid are amazing chiuces. Another wonderful note taking app is an online notebook from Zoho. 
For bullet notes, there are Taakade and Trello, among others. In Taskade and a great app for work, Quiip, which happens to deal with notes as well, you can also 
share your notes with otheres and edit them together. 

How to take good notes? The best notes must evoke in your mind a full, comprehensive picture of a subject matter or its aspect. Iderally, minimum notes should containg maximum information. This 
means you don't have to write all the time - remember, the most impotant thing is to listen and understand 
information; and then you put down those symbols, which will help you remember whatr you've understood so that you can owrk further with the material obtained. Look at you r 
notes from diggerent angles, reorganize them. and try to switch your tactics in teh process - any of these new angles may trigger 
a new vision or a better understanding of the idea at hand.