How to read effectively and fast: 10 Wasy speed reading tips (+speed reading exercises)
-on Writology
link=> https://writology.com/blog/how-to-read-effectively-and-fast-10-easy-speed-reading-tips-speed-reading-exercises.html

WHAT IS SPEED READING? DO YOU NEED A SPEED REDING HABIT? 
There is haedly anybody in the present-day society who cannot read at all, but do all of us read fast 
enought? Shall we learn to speeed read fast or are out skills sufficient?

First of all, let's clarigy when reading is needed. WE need to know the latest news and get information 
on different issues. We want to learn new concepts, get new skills and develop the available ones, 
or merely get amused. No matter what the reason is, it is a must to learn to read faster and become more 
prodictive in reading. 

So, boosting your english reading skills, you aim at spending less time retainging information of the same amount. 
Otherwise, speed reading makes no sense. 

READING COMPREHENSION TIPS ON HOW TO READ FASTER AND MORE EFFECTIVELY 

-Reading Comprehension tip #1: Scan for the titles and headings as well as introductory and closing 
sections

Better reading comprehension strategies always point out at the value of subject lines. Each new section of every 
reading is almost always underlines or highlighted somehow to draw your attention. Learn how to read faster by getting the 
gist of the paragraph without going into minute details you probably will not need. One of the speed 
reading techniquies is reading the introductiona dn concluydion of large documents to see the summary of the content. 
Being pressed for time, you can just search for the titles, headers introduction and concluding sections to get the needed genereal understanding. 

-Reading Comprehension tip #2: Look through the first sentence of each section and sub- section 
    Learing how to learn reading quickly, you have to realize that the kwy information can be grasped from the firest 
    sentences of every paragraph. The author always tries to use the initial line or two lines to 
    present the essence of the ideas. You will proceed to reading through those paragraphs which seem to be relevant to 
    your needs. After you deciphre the key points, it will be easy to go on.

-Reading Comprehension Tip #3: have a close look at the pictures
    Studying the diagrams, figures and pictures is a vluable speed reading habit, which can be of great use not only 
    for visual persons. Those elements contain loads of information. What is more, they do not require much time to be 
    understood as you will actually read very little. Get to know how to increase reading speed and comprehension by taking 
    a gre seconds to look at the chart and guess the topic and the main idea of the authos, hiddent in the long explanations 
    under the visual elemts.

-Reading Comprehension Tip $4: Do not make any sounds!
    Learing how to increase speed reading, you will be surptised to now that you have always made a serious 
    mistake while reading. You have always thought that uyou will boos your reading fluency if you do not open your 
    mouth at all! Articulation of the words holds you back and your reading levels get lower instead of getting uyp. 
    One of the funny hacks for speed reading is chwing a gum. It sounds incredible but keeping your muscles 
    busy will show you how to gain more knowledge in less time.

-reading Comprehension Tip $5: Create your own reading encvironment 
    Boost speed reading skills get better developed if they are applied in a comfortable setting. When there are no disturbing sounds or distracting noises, your speed 
    reading techniquies work muych more effectively. Trabelling or being umder stress and pressure, you cannot find your reading practice enjoyable. Instead, when you dind yourself 
    in a relaxing atmosphere, sitting i a cozy armchair with enough daylight, you will not only boost speed reading, but also have positive mood.

-Reading Comprehensive Tip #6: Take notes while reading 
    You have definitely learnt how to take notes from a textbool, but you can actually do that with any reading 
    material. The reading comprehension tips always suggest recording the key aspects of all texts. This idea how to speed read can save you muchj time that you need for  multiple re-reading of the same 
    informaton. Annotating the text, you rememnbver it better and know how to read more effeciently. you will not only make your conclusions easily, but 
    also know how to gian more knowledge.

-Reading Comprehension Tip #8: Avoid multitasking 
    It is possibnle to do several things at the same time; However, you will fail your reading rest if you focus on some 
    other taks simultaneiously, even if that is listening to your favorite music. All guidelines on how to 
    increase speed reading emphasize the valire of doing only one thing at a time. No phone calls, chatting daydreaming or watching tv; other wise, 
    you will be distracted and you won't be able to learn how to read faster. 

-Reading Compehension Tip # 9: Track your speed and record the time 
    Using the guided reading strategies, try to record all  your achievements. Studying the tips on how to read more effectively, find those you would like to try and track your 
    progress. You can either read online or take a paper book; in any case, count the number of words you have read during a certaing time or use any of the reding speed apps to do that. 
    You will see how your improvements can make you motivated for further progress in how to read better.

-Reading Comprehension Tip #10: Practive will make your reading skills perfect 
    Learning how to speed read cannot fo smoothly withour actual reading. You will never nbe excellent at how to enhance rading skills or how to become a fast reader, 
    if you devote little time to daily practice. Take only twenty minutes regularly and choose the books to read to gain knowledge. Then, your ability to learn how to read faster will depend only on your efforts, 
    willingness to succeed, and habit to try speed reading hacks in practice.

-Reading Speed Apps/ Software 
    Try different reading websites and reading programs to stramline the online reading and comprehension skills.
    Thyer are various options for those interedted in speed reading tips and useful apps: Spreeder, Accelereator, Spiritz app, 
    Rapid Serial Visual Presentation software and other tools will save you much time and teach you how to improve speed reading and benefit from the latest technologies.

-Exercise for better reading: Boost Speed Reading skills 
    - Use reading worksheets
    - Act readting tips that you find most valuable
    - Folloe the text with an index finger
    - Try to minimize the movement of your eyes
    - try to read skipping unimportant words

-Reading fluency: Benefits and long-term effects through reading activities
    It is a common fact that dinosaurs did not read books. And what is the consequience of that? they are extinct!

    Try various reading activitis and read through different tips on reading books faster to survive and be sarter than dinosaurs. 
    You know how to read a textbook quickly and effectively, so you will learn what the best way to read a book is. Use 
    our easy speed reading rips and be a pro at how to speed up reading.