The 50/30/10/10 Rule for hwo to wake up earlier and work on your dream
-by Jason Gutierrez
link=> https://medium.com/better-humans/the-50-30-10-10-rule-for-how-to-wake-up-earlier-and-work-on-your-dream-66d63b34554d

I am not a morning person what soever.

Late last year, I began waking up at 5:30 AM to write for an hour then drive to work at an 
engineering firm. It was the hardest fuvking thing I had done in a long time. But I did it.

And you know what? 

I bet you could too.

Imagine how much better your day would be if you accomplidhed your hardes, most important work 
first thing in the morning. The rest of your day would be a breeze. YOu could relax in the evening 
without feeling like a bum or stressing because you let another day slip by without doing what you 
planned.
My story of waking up early consists of a 50/30/10/10 split of determination, preparation, execution 
and luck.

Let me explain...

THE 50% determination
For most of the population, 5:30 AM is not a normal time to be awake. There's no switch you can flip 
to make yourself consistently wake up that early, especially if doing it for your own reasons 
(i.e. not doing it to avoid being fired).
Basically, it's going to take some effort. 

It sounds extremely cheesy, but if you want to wake up earlier, you've got to really want it. 

Several years ago, I tried waking up earlier to write for my blog before woek. I did it once and it 
felt amazing - then I never did it again.

I didn't want it bad enough.

It's hard to wake up early when you have a 7 to 5 day job in engineering. It's much easier to skip 
writing, go to work, condider the day a success, and not work on your own dreams. 

At some point, you've got to become obsessed with whatever your dream is. For me, that was writing.

Currently, i wake up at 5:30 AM every weekday morning (I give myself an extra hour or two to rest 
on the weekends). I write, then head to work. This article is a product of my early rising habit).

What changed? 
I realized I wanted to be a writer. 

I was no longer satisfird being some mook trying to make money online and half-assing it. 

I love engineering, but I don't want to do it forevcer. I want to be a writer. I still suck at writing, 
but I want to get better. I need to get better. I'm obsessed with getting better. 
I knew if I wanted to be a better writer and change my life, I had to make it a priority. That became 
my determination for waking up earlier. 

If I didn't wake up earlier, I couldn't write. \

If I couldn't write, I wasn't a writer. 

If I wasn't a writert, I wasn't chasing my dream.

Until you get to this obsession, untill you have this revelation, you'll keep convincing yourself 
waking up earluy isn't worth it. You'll press the snooze and stay in bed.

How bad do you want it? That's what comes first. 

THE 30% PREPARATION 

Determination alone brought me about halfway to waking up early consistently. The rest was prepation, 
execution,a nd luck.

Ther were precisely five things I started doing tht helped prepare me for waking up early. 

1. Going to bed earlier 
    Most prople function best on a set amount of sleep. For some lucky few, that's 6 hours. i tend 
    to function better on at least 7-8 hours. I'm guessing maybe you do, too.

    I realized that if I planned to wake up 2 hourse earlier than mormal, and I normally sleep 
    8 hours, I better get to bed 2 hours earlier to keep the status qui and my body functioning properly.\

2. "Winding down" before bed
    It's hard to convince your body it's time to fall asleep if you're operating full throttle untill
    you hit the sack. I created a wind-down routine for myself that lets my cody know it's time to start 
    preparing for sleep. 

    Bout an hour before bed, I stop using any tech devices. On the rare occasion I break my routine, 
    i always make sure to dim my ohone or laptop screen.

    Then, I'll make myself a hot cup of tea, meditate for about 10 minutes, and get into bed.

    Once ther, I'll read from a dimply lit Kingle until I reach a good stoppinmg place or my eyes 
    can't keep themselves open. 

    At this point, it's night-night for Jason. 

3. Planning my morning the day before
    when I first tried waking up early, I'd find mysrlf procrastinating - checking social media and 
    fumnblinng to do something usefyul. This led to many unseccessfurl attempts at waking up early.

    Planning my mornings the day before, so that I knew exactly what to work on, helped tremendoisly. 
    Iget right to work and don't waste any time or energy. 

    Operating this way, my mornings frrl like a success, and I want to keep waking up early. 

4. No more drinking caffeine after 2 pm
    This is a rule I implemented for myself after reading about the effects of caffeine on sleep. 
    I'm sure this is slighlyt different for everybody, but it works for me. 

5. Ecercising during the day
    It's proven that those who exercise sleep better on a consistent basis. I always try to tire myself 
    out with a good wourkout at some point in the day. Add in all the other stuff above, and when it's time for bed, I 
    have no troubles conking out.

    I'm not saying you must do these five things if you want to wake up earlyu, but they helped me 
    signifiantly. At the verty least, some sort of plan for waking up early is essentisal. Incorporate some 
    of my preparation ideas above along with your own. 

THE 10% EXECUTION 

Now, when the time comes to dinally wake up, most of the work has already been done for me. The execution 
piece is straight-foward. Here's how mine looks:

I set an alarm the night before and say to myself...

"I gave to get up at five-thirty tomorrow to write.."

Don't skip this step. It might seem silly, but truyst me, the mental pep-talk helps.

Then in the morning upon hearing my alarm, i get up and immediately leave the vedroom. No snoozing for this 
guy. From the moment I reach for my alarm, I keep myself in motion and roll out of bed. 

Don't lay in bed checking socisal media, email, or whatever. Just get up and leave the bed.

Do give yourself something to look forward to after waking up. Fro me, that's a hot cup of coffee bedore 
getting down to business. 

Try setting your alarm across the room if you struggle with snoozing. I used to do this but don't 
anymore. For some strange reason, it actually didn't work for me, though I've heard other who do 
it with success. I found it to be a fun game running to the alarm and seeing how fast I could dive back 
into bed. My brain is weird sometime. 


THE 10% LUCK 
As much I'd like to contribute my success entirely to my own actions, I'd be lying.

About a month after consistently waking up early, I felt a dip in motivation. Not everything was 
going my way:

I was working longer hours at my day job.

I bought and moved into a new home. 
things were hectic. 

Things were stressful. 

I wanted to sleep in.

for most, these would be viable excuses to give up. However, my (ex-) wife adn I had just adopted 
a new puppy. I'll be damned if that little guyy didn't help me through my short slump to stay 
on habit. 

Every morning without fail, our new puppy, Mose, would wake up between 4:30 AM and 5:30AM having to 
relieve himself. Not wnating the dog to think it was OK to shit on the carpet, I made sure to wake 
up and ley him outside. Once I was up, I figured I might as well continuyr with my writing habit. 

Sometimes, a little bit of luck goes a long way. 

Though, maybe luck isn't the right way to phrase this. Maybe "accountability" would be better.

having a partner to keep you accountable can make a world of difference. For me, that happened to be Mose. 

Even the obsessed and highly disciplined can fall victim to the perfect storm of life's problems. 
Prepare for this by having a back-up: an accountabnility partner to carry you through those tough times.

Create your own luck, so-to-speak. 

And now, it's bedtime for this guy/ How about you? See you tomorrow bright and early.