How to get started - It has very little to do with motivation
-by Kris Gage
link=> http://medium.com/@krisgage/how-to-get-started-656f0725ce9

There are, overall, two types of prople:
 - Those tht can start things, but have trouble finishing
 - Those that can finish things, but have trouble starting

If you think you're both, fine. It's unlikey, but sure - that just means you're even worse off than 
most. Start with one. 

If you say you don't struggle with either, then you're problably lying. But if not, awesome - 
I'm just not sure why you're reading this post. 

If you want to argue you do both at different times, or that it depends on the thing, or the day, or the 
way  the stars are aligned: duh. Obvioulsy. Congrats, You're a human being; we all do. But chances 
are you have a bigger problem with one or the other, or tend to one over the oter with bigger shit. 
If not, just picik the thing that matters most, and let's start ther. 

So let's keep to the two groups outlined above. More that likely, the primary argument isn't in the 
fact that ther are two, but the suggestion that everyonw in either grou[ can be treated the same.]

1. FOR THOSE WHO STRUGGLE TO START 

Rejecting eveything as not being "right" or "good enough" or " the one ". Calling this "uncerainty" or 
"discernment." Realizing (or even not realizing_) that it's perfectionism.

Manifesting as procrastination. Lack of Action. Lack of conviction. Lack of a start. 

When I began writing on Medium in April of 2017, I had no idea how to start. Ijust did. I don't mean t make 
that sound contrived, because I know it does, and I know there are a number of people who read that 
and think there's still some Huge Important Underlying Secret that I'm keeping to myself, like "yead, 
but what else?" (Most commonly, they phrae this as "what's your process?" or "what was your motication?") 
And I can answer any of these quistions, but none of the answers are what you need. And the best thing 
I could tell you in response is: I just started. And after that, I just kept going. I wrote whatever felt 
like it ws "good".

And, perhaps most importantly, I wrote even when I didn't feel like writing. 

And if there's one pieve of advice I'd give, it's: 
    <ptivation and inspiration are the biggest crocks of the universe.

And as I've said before: anyone who's done anything substantial has done it regardless, and anyone 
who sits around "waiting" to feel sufficiently "inspired" or "motivated" is on a fast train to nowhere.

Braking free of an inability to start is incredibly somple: forget about passion for a second. Forget 
about anything needing to be perfect. And in fact, tell yourself that nobody will read or see or dind out about 
this first attempt. Pertend it's just and expereiment - the first of ta thousand more to follow - and do whatever the fuck 
interests or excites or delights you most. 

Not eveything will work with this trick. Tons of people use this to convince themselves to work out evey day. 
Like, I can't tell you  how manuy times I've read, " I just rtell muyself to hop on the treadmill 
for 5 minutes - just five minutes! And crazy thing is , once I get atarted, I end up going for 30,
or 45!"

I am not that person. Sure, I can convince myself to get on the treadmill for five minutes,a dn I'll be damned if 90% of the time, 
I'm watching the seconds tick down on that digital clock like sight dog on a pheasant, and the secont 
it hits five minutes, I'm out of ther. I do not like to be on the treadmill. I'do it, but only out of 
obliagtion./ No part of me has ever once kicked in and said, "you know what?! I ws wrong - this is fun!"

And that's the second group:

2. FOR THOSE WHO STRUGGLE TO FINISH 

You don't need any help in the inspiration department - at least not to get started. You problably 
live very well in tune with your interests, inclinations experiments, deas, and inspiration, and then 
I ended the section above with "just try things," you may have laughed a little like "lol, prople struggle 
with this?"

You are brimming with options.

Maybe it's easy for you to "just do it;" just take action, on most anything set in front of you. 

Maybe it's easy for you to brainstrom ideas, or consider how anythng and everything ties back to logic. 

Or maybe it's automatic for you to understand what's most authentic to you; what you're experiencing, feeling;
what you desire.

Either way: starting or brainstorming is the easiest thing in the world for you - and your bigger challenge is either:

    1. "Finding the time" to "do it all," or 
    2. Maintaining the interest and motivation to keep going onve you do. 

So, you have two options here. What's more important - authenticityu, or obligation?

In the case of the treadmill, or other healthy habits, we don't need to like it. We don't need to like 
going to the dentist, or filimng our taxes, or cleaning our house. We just need better ways to tell ourselves to 
stop being such babies about it, and get irt done |We shouldn';t care if we "like" it - that doesn't matter. Adn even though it feels like 
it should, or we're shouting in our own ear, we can't placate. 

But it does matter when it's  work and love. and there, you have to make the smae decision again: what matters 
more - my feelings in this moment, or what I get at the end of the road? Is failing the marshmallow test 
worth it to  me? Maybe it is. Maybe it's not. 

But eveything that's worthwhile in life is not based on motivation alone. It's not based on inspiration alone. Living your life waiting 
around to " feel like it" means you're going to go a very long time not living at all. You have to take action 
regardless. And then enjoy the feelings when they do "feel" like joining. 