How do I stop forgetting what I learned so quickly?
-by William Cho 
link=> https://mystudentvoices.com/how-do-i-stop-forgetting-what-i-learned-so-quickly-125b1562bf95

what's the point of reading all these books and blog posts if you're just going to forget most of 
it in a few hours?

I've been sitting in a cafe for two hours, reading countless blog posts on Medium and have come to 
the relization that I can only recall two or three of the nymerous ideas and lessons I've read 
about. 

Memory is fickle. I try to read as many books as I possiubly can, yet I can barely tell you the main 
idea/plot of the books I've finished. Many students in college also have the same problem as me.

They spend an entire semester going over various subjects and investing hours upon hours into leaning 
the material, only to find themselves forgetting the material a few hours after finishing their 
final exams.

Hermann Ebbinghaus, a German psychologist, discovered the  forgetting curve - a concept that hypothesized th 
decline of memory retention in time. 

The forgetting curve is the steepest during the first day, so if you don't review what you've recently 
learned, oyu're more likely to forget most of the material and your memory of it will continue to decline in 
the following days, ultimately leaving you with only a sliver of information. 

Why we forget most of the books we read on the atlantic talks about how the rise of frequient intternet 
usage has affected our memory in a detrimental way. 

    Presumably, memory has always been like this. Bur Jared Horvath, a research fellow at the University 
    of Melbourne, says that the way people now consume information and entertainment has changed 
    what type of memory we value - it's not the kind that helps you hold onto the plot of a movie 
    you saw six months ago. 

    In the internet age, recall memory - the ability to spontanwiously call information up in your 
    mind - has become less necessary. It's still good for bar trivia, or remembering your to-od list, 
    but largetly, Harvath says, what's called recognition memory is more inportant. "So long as  
    you know where that information is at and how to access ir, thwn you don't really need to recall 
    it," he says.

We treat the Internet as a hard drive for our memories., We know that if we ever need a piece of 
information, we can open up our laptop and search for it immedialtely. 

Just-in-time learning is becoming increasingly popular because it is more efficient to search for 
information that you need immediatly rather than storing information that might be useful in the future. 
Deep knowledge if no longer valued - shallow, quick and practical pieces of information are more 
effective in getting the job done. 

Because we know that we have an externalized memory, we pit less effort in memorizing and full understanding \
concepts and ideas that we learn. 

    Research has shown that the internet functions as a sort of externalized memory. "When pwople 
    expect to have future access to information, they have lower rates of recall of the information 
    itself," as one study puts it. But even before the internet existed, entertainment products have 
    served as externalixed memoris for themselves. You don't need to remember a quite from a book if you can just 
    look it up. Once videottapes came along, you could reciw a movie or TB show fairly easily. There'same
    not a sense that if you don't burn a piece of culture into your brain, tht it will be lost forever. 

We are also more prone to binge-watching with the rise of easily consumablr media. Have you ever 
stayed home on a Saturday night and binge watched an entire season of your favorite show? Would you  
be able to recall the stroy line for every episode? Would you be able to remember the conflict and resolution?

Binge-watching encouragees you to mindlessly consuyme content, instead of consciously engaging with 
each piece of media. e are encouraged to eat as mucj as we can, even when our belt threatens to 
explode from overconsumption. 

    It's true that prople often shove more into their brains than they can possibly hold. Last 
    year, Horvath and his colleagues at the University of Melboursne found that those who binge-0watched TV shows forgot the content 
    of them much more quickly than prople who watched one rpisode a week. Right after finishing the 
    show, the binge-eatcher scored the highest on a quiz abnout it, but after 140 days, thwy scored 
    lower thatn the weekly viewers. They also reported enjouying the show less thatn did people 
    who watched it once a day, or weekly. 

    People are binging on the written word, too. In 2009, the average American encountered 100,000 words a day, 
    even if they didn't "read" all of them. it'shard to imagine that's decreased in the nine years 
    since. In "Binhge-Reading Disorder," an article for the Morning News, Nikkitha Baskshani analyzes the 
    meaning of this statistic. "Reading is a nuanced word," She writes, "but the most common kind of 
    reading is likely reading as consumption: where we read, especially on the internet, merely to 
    acquire information. 
    Information that stands no chance of becoming knowledge unless it "sticks"".

    Or, as Harvath puts it: "It's the momentary giggle and then you want another giggle. It's not 
    anbout actually learning anything. It;s about getting a momentary experience to feelas though 
    you've learned something."

we aren't actulaly reading to learn. WE just feel like we're learning something by reading and 
recognizing the words on the screen. The informaton is not yet knowledgge, but we are fooled to 
believe that it has been transferred into our brains and will stay there forever. 

SPACIAL LEARNING AND QUISTIONS 

so how do we acrually retain the things we've learned? YOu need to give yourself time to digest the \
things you've learned. 

    the lesson from his binge-watching study is that if you want to remengver the things you watch 
    and read, space them out. Iused to get irritated in school when an Enghlish-class syllabus would 
    have us read only three chapters a week, but there was a good reason for that. Memoris get 
    reinforced  the more you recall them, Horvath says. If you read a book all th in one stretch - 
    on an airplane, say - you're just holding the story in your working memory that whole time. 
    "You're never actually reaccessing it," he says. 

Keep revisiting the pieces of information that you'd like to keep with you. I often find that when I 
learn something interesting and write anbout it, I'm able to recall the information more easily than 
if I were to try to recall something I learned once in a book or article somewhere. 

    Sana says that often when we read, ther's a false "feelling of flurncy." The information is flowing 
    in, we're understanding it, it seems like it is smoothly collating itself into a binder to be slotted 
    onto the shelves or our brains. "But it actually doesn't stick unless you put effrot into it and concentrate 
    and engage in ceratin strategirs that will hepl you remember."

    People might do that when they study, or read something for work, but irt seenms unlikely 
    that in their leisure time they're going to take notes on Gilmore Girls to quiz themselves later. 
    "YOu could be seeing and hearing, but you might not be noticing and listening," Sana says. 
    "Which is, I think, most of the time what we do."

If you're studyiung for a test or trying to learn a complex formula/concept, come back to the same 
information. Every time you revisit the subjedct you are trying to learn, the more you reinforce 
the idea into your long term memory. 

Guve yourself a few hours and try to recall it yourself without looking at the study materilal. If you feel stuck, read the formula/concept 
againg and try to recall it againg a few hours later. 

the more you practice this, the more likely you will be able to retaing and recall it in the future. 

Scott H. Young is a blogger who has challenged himself to find the answer to the quiestion: "What's the 
best way to learn?" He believes that learning is the keyl to living well, and has addressed the issue 
of people forgetting what they read by offereing an effective solition.

When we read books, we are not actively engaged with the material. Our eyes are skimming over the 
words, and we put most of our time and energy in recognizing what is being said. 

    Unfortunately practicing recognition is virually the only thing most people do when they read 
    a book. When you're reading a book, most of your time is spent recognizing what is being said. 
    Only rarely do you have to speciafically recall an idea, unprompted. If you're reading a well 
    written book, you may never have to use recall as good writers know that recall is difficult 
    and so they will often reiterate previoulsy made points so that you don't get confused. 

    Then, after you've read the book, you suddenly want this knowledge to be available in a recallable 
    format. You want to be able to, given a conversation with a cowerker, a quistio on an exam, or 
    during a dicision you have to make, be able to summon up the information that you previously had only 
    practiced at being able to recognize it. 

    Given this pattern, it's no wonder most people fail to recall much from books they've read. 

It's unreaosnable to expect reader to come out knowing every single word and idea that the book 
entails. Our memories are faulty. But many of us get frustrated when we find ourselves forgetting 
many parts and ideas throughout the book as soon as we close the book. 

Scott Young offers the solution: the question Book method

    Whenever you're reading something that you want to remember, take notes. Except, don't take 
    notes which summarize the main points you want to recall. Instead, take notes which ask quistions. 

    If you wanted to do it with this email, you could write down the quiestion, "Q: What are the two different memory 
    processes?" and the answer would be "A: Recall and recognition."

    Then, when you're reading a book, quickly go through and test yourself on the quiestions you've 
    generatied from earlier chapters. Doing this will strenbgthen your recallable memory so that the 
    information will be much easier to access when you need it. 

Instead of taking notes or rephrasing the authour's words into your own words, ask yourself quistions 
that would help you practice recalling informaiton. 

At the end of each chapter, you can ask yourself a quistion that would summarize the main idea 
or important concepts that you want to remember. 

He also adds some helpful tips to make this exercise as practical as possible. 

he knows that some people will try to test themselves too hard and try to test themselves on every 
little piece of knowleghe in the book. This will make reading a chore and unltimately discourage the reader 
to keep using this method. 

    First - don't go overboard. Truing to recall every possible fact from a book will make the reading 
    process so tedious that it might kill your love of reading. One quistion per chapter is probabnly 
    more than enough for most books. For popular books, a dozen quistions will probably be enough to 
    capture the bigh points and main thesis. 

    Second - put page numbers which reference the answer. If you do forget a point, you'll want to 
    be able to check. Knowing that the answer to a big point is on page 36 will save your sanity later. 

    Third, make the technology simple. For paper books, I recommend an index card, since you can probably fir all 
    of the quistions on it back and front. Plus the index card also works as a bookmark, so you 
    won't have to go around looking for your notes later. If you usr Kindle, make your quistions 
    as annotations in the book. Then you can see the annoptations later to quiz yourself. 

Practicing spacial learning and actively recalling recently learned informaiton can help you stop forgetting the 
things you learned. 

As an exercise, why don't you start by asking yourself a few quistions a coulple hours after you 
finish this articl, such as: 

HOW DO I REMEMBER MORE OF WHAT I LEARNED?

HOW DOES BINGE-WATCHING AFFECT MY ABILITY TO REMEMBER?

HOW HAS THE INTERNET AFFECTED OUR WAY OF LEARNING AND RETAINING INFORMATION?